greetings everyone from all around the
world this is Laszlo Montgomery China
history podcast we've been sequestered
together for the past nine weeks looking
at the history of Chinese philosophy
from the earliest days even before
Confucius and in this final episode part
9 we're gonna take it as far as we dare
go and that is going to be but the
person we finished off with last time in
part 8 Wang Cho Ren aka won Yang Ming
would have come back he made in the 21st
century we'll get to that in a minute I
mentioned last time this whole
neo-confucianism philosophy sort of got
split into the leisure school the school
of Li our principle was developed by
Cheung Yee and perfected by Chu Shi and
this became known as the Chungju school
you can see that on the infographic
provided at the outset and now we will
look at their number one competitor the
school that began with Cheung Chau and
later fortified with the thought of
Luciola Ren we all got to hear about him
last episode he was also known as Lu
Xiang Xiang the master of zhongshan lu
denied the existence of any truths other
than what one gained through their own
awareness remember his famous words from
last episode quote the universe is in my
mind and my mind as the universe unquote
the master of Shang Xiang he said what
you were taught wasn't as important Liu
Sheng Jian and Zhu Shi were rivals in
their day whose philosophical
differences were mainly concerned with
the route one should take in order to
become a sage joushi read read those
four books and acquire all this external
knowledge coupled with purposeful self
cultivation to better yourself Liu said
all you need to know is already in your
mind the master of xiang shan said focus
instead on what's already in your mind
to seek the truth now Wang Yong Ming is
going to take this to another level
subtly of course but his enthusiasm for
this idea postulated by Lu Xiang Xiang
allowed his name to be forever
associated with the concept of
innate knowledge and the school of
thought championed by Wong yang main
became known as the Lou Wong school of
the mind or Xin Jie this was the thought
of Lucien and Wong so read or if you
prefer Lu Xiang Xiang and Wong yang Meng
take a choice both names work in polite
society one young being from his perch
well into the Ming Dynasty thought those
fellows back in the song didn't get it
quite right
the number of years between the time of
the five founders of song
neo-confucianism in the 11th century up
to one young Ming was as great as that
of Columbus discovering America up to
our present day so once again as these
philosophers did from time to time they
said too much time has passed there
needed to be some tidying up and
recalibrating of accepted doctrines so
that the ideology got to take advantage
of all the innovations and new ideas of
these more advanced and sophisticated
times and that's what one young being
sought to do it all started last time in
part eight when he was in cuejoe this
was back in 1508 he had a sudden aha
moment regarding what he saw as a
critical flaw and zhu xi's thought this
epiphany that wang head in guacho
beckoned 1508 was summarized in a poem
he wrote quote everyone has within an
erring compass the root and source of
the myriad transformations lies in the
mind i laugh when i think that earlier I
saw things the other way around
following branches and leaves I searched
outside Wong's passion was an
understanding how people knew right from
wrong
he said there's some conscience or moral
compass that is hardwired into our
makeup that causes us to act a way as we
do where did one young man part ways
with the established juicy lishus school
of principle it all came down to the
role of the mind at humans zhu xi said
all leave
principal are now in forever present no
matter whether the mind exists or not
Huang shall Ren master young mean he
said if there's no mind there can be no
lead the mind is the administrator of
all the lis in the universe it's all in
your mind this was the main point Wong
Yang Ming seized and and made central to
his thought therefore what he's most
remembered he then tried to emphasize in
the Confucian sense how to cultivate the
sheen or mind during one young man's
period of meditation at that cave an
hour north of gray yang when he was
exiled due to the perfidy of the eunuch
Leo Jean he came up with his idea of the
unity of knowledge and action
Jerzy and Chloe yep what tint shall
waken was - Sun yat-sen that's what
Jersey huh he was - Wang Yang Ming
that's the signature slogan are saying
most associated with his name but this
unity of knowledge and action meant on a
simple level at least is that innately
without having to learn to do so just by
her own very own moral compass that came
with the package at Birth we all have
the knowledge about the morality of a
given situation and take action
accordingly you know what to do innately
Wang Yang Ming said that you don't need
to go learn what to do from somewhere
else and the Confucian classics the four
books he didn't say don't read them all
Wang Yang Ming was saying and his idea
of cherishing Hui or unity of knowledge
and action was that Confucius Zhu XI no
one could teach you what to do
everything you should morally do it's
already in your Xin your mind it already
has it all figured out reciprocity do
unto others as you'd like them to do
unto you Wang Yang Ming would say what
what do you need to read the Lin you to
know that you already know in your mind
what's the right thing to do what a good
and decent person would do we all have
the knowledge within us yeah but let me
repeat not all of us act morally or at
all that's the problem how
do you put this lian-chu this innate
knowledge to work it's part of your
moral compass and leads you always to
make the right choice the moral choice
it knows how to respond to any situation
the problem is losing it it doesn't die
or disappear but if one selfish desires
an immoral character become part of
their makeup when it becomes easy to
lose sight of this goodness and to
compartmentalize you're in early and one
young being insisted that this mind we
all have as Moses said it was was good
and we could all gain self-awareness
through purposefully acting and being
good in the Confucian sense wang wasn't
the first to say this but he implored
his students don't just read them books
to get into a good school and go on to
become rich and famous zhu xi's
commentaries on the four books were
sacred in one jung means time when it
was learned that one young man's idea of
fixing up the four books meant restoring
them to where they were before zhu xi
took all these liberties he did this
created quite a storm back in the early
1500s there were no fence sitters on
this issue you were for or against what
one young Ming was teaching Zhu Xi's
commentaries on the four books had
become a victim of its own success zhu
xi emphasized what he called the
investigation of things gu which was
essentially book learning memorizing
these texts rather than being read and
studied for what the content might teach
you people instead just memorize the
material without considering the meaning
or how it related to them rather than
reading the four books and choose Xi's
commentaries for what it had to teach
that had just become material for you to
cram inside for the sake of passing a
test and maybe going on to a successful
career this malaise in purposefully
carrying out these rituals and following
these teachings had even affected the
way people went through the motions and
showing reverence for their ancestors
one young being believed this is what
neo-confucianism the Chung Zhu Li Jie
version at least had become so he just
wanted a reformat that's all he just
wanted to reinvent
Leisha to shed itself of all the
barnacles and extra weight that had
accumulated and in freshening up the
doctrine it would be more relevant to
the times while advocated for a regimen
of self cultivation through meditation
and going with your own intuitive moral
understanding he had great faith in the
goodness of human nature and he sought
to teach a way of living that benefited
society the most and the reference books
that one could consult to enhance their
understanding of correct moral behavior
were contained in the four books Wong
yang mains message was to encourage each
person to develop their own innate
knowledge so that they could discover
their se Gelinas within themselves again
he emphasized blindly studying the words
of the ancient Paragons of virtue wasn't
the way Wong Yuen maying was considered
a rebel in some respects and his
followers carried forward his reforming
spirit this included real reforms for
the common folk Wong was for things like
providing educational opportunities to
all the people he advocated for women
and came right out and said they were no
more or less intellectual than men after
as many years in the eunuch infested
nest of vipers that was the mid to late
Ming Dynasty Imperial government no is
easy to become disillusioned with the
state the one young being insisted that
government wasn't the solution to
China's problems this was a significant
parting of the ways with old
Confucianism that had always looked to a
benevolent and righteous government as
the starting point for a peaceful and
stable society f/w moat said of one
young Ming quote he encouraged a
reorientation of the political focus
away from emperor state and government
he turned that focus to the people who
led and who made up the small community
he turned away from the traditional
leadership role of the high elites in
central government offices to the local
context of social life in which the
elite and commoners shared in the
responsibility for themselves and to one
another
he had come to see this as the most
hopeful Arena of Confucian social action
end quote
I think I have done enough yammering
about Wong's children aka Wang Yang Ming
yes of taipei yangmingshan Fame when I
began this history of Chinese philosophy
series I intended only to go this far so
rather than get into what happened to
philosophy and the Ching we're gonna end
it here with the death of Wong Yuen
being at 1529 he died before his time at
the relatively young age of 57 in last
episode we saw he served the Ming rulers
and some very rough terrains and Jiang
Shi cui Jo Guang XI back in the early
16th century you really had to rough it
in those places and we saw last episode
how Wong lacked the physical
Constitution to thrive and such backward
locales NC lie in his deathbed
surrounded by his disciples he was asked
if he had any final words and one young
man gave his famous reply solution Guang
Ming he fool Willian this Sheen this
heart or mind of mine is bright there is
no need to say anything else a hundred
and fifteen years after one young means
death came the end of the Ming and the
establishment of the Ching and this time
not only did Zhu XI come in for a second
caning so did Wong Yuen Ming in the
Confucian astaire occurred at backlash
against neo-confucianism both the Lou
Wong and Cheung Zhu sort this new
reactionary movement was called hundred
the learning of the Han Dynasty in other
words forgetting about all the revisions
changes gross liberties taken throughout
the centuries and going back to the
thought that he merged during the Han
Dynasty why the Hun well they were the
ones who were closest to Confucius and
monks as time and the received texts
were uncorrupted with all these radical
new thoughts and unconfuse and teachings
that popped up over the centuries
so these ching thinkers look to
rediscover what they called the
teachings of the classical Confucian
sages in the charge the radical ching
scholars made against both Zhu XI and
Wong yang Ming was that both Leisha and
Xin Jie were completely infused with so
many extraneous Taoist and Buddhist
elements that the Confucianists of the
classical age wouldn't even recognize it
so during the ching there was a powerful
faction in the Confucian hierarchy who
made it their job to peel away a great
deal of what had been pasted on since
the early song and then much later on
trade and commerce wasn't the only thing
affected by the arrival of the European
powers during the 18th century the
Confucians in government they knew a bad
thing when they saw it the tug of war
between entrenched Confucian officials
and the Westerners and all their demands
for changes to the status quo and as far
as it affected them will lead to an epic
tug-of-war struggle that will end in
1905 when the civil service exams were
cast aside as the only ticket to
becoming a government official and once
this happened Confucianism took its
biggest hit in its long history after
losing its raison d'tre Confucian
elders would have to do what they always
did reinvent Confucianism and maintain
its relevancy as I mentioned previously
part 2 I believe Confucius went through
the wringer a few times in history Xin
dynasty and Cultural Revolution most
notably well after 1949 and clear
through to the 2000s one young Ming's
bourgeois thought was considered best
left on red just as Monza had to live in
purgatory during the hongwal emperors
time for his thought so Wong Yang Ming
had to lay low in modern times well some
places China most notably but not
anymore he's back and perhaps bigger
than ever in recognizing that some of
these old ideas and a lot of this
goorsha this traditional Chinese culture
should get a second look even China's
leaders president
being most notably in 2014 have said as
far as raising the sense of public
morality is concerned there's something
to be learned from one Yong Ming and
it's in the city of glue young in
nature's paradise glacial province the
banner of Wong Yong Ming is being raised
higher than perhaps elsewhere from
looking at the Chinese sign of the web
the subject of Wong Yong Ming has or
these past couple years gotten a lot of
attention in Quay young they've pulled
out all the stops not only is there a
one Yong Ming Museum there's also a one
Yang Ming Park of which the cave where
he went to meditate where he took on the
courtesy name Yong Ming that's inside
the park as much as I'd love to keep on
going I'm gonna cash out right here
naturally it's tempting to take this on
to its logical conclusion the ching but
in order to avoid dragging this out for
another ten episodes let's put the quill
down and move on to the next great thing
here at the chp nine weeks in a row
geez you probably sick a philosophy by
now not to mention hearing my voice i
wanted to recommend this book that came
out in 2016 published by Simon &
Schuster it was called the path what
Chinese philosophers can teach us about
the good life the authors were Michael
pew it and Christine grow slow doctor
pew 'it is the Walter C Klein professor
of Chinese history in the Dept of East
Asian languages and civilizations and
chair of the Committee on the study of
religion at the famous Harvard Christine
grows low is an author who writes on
history education philosophy and global
parenting and has been published all
over the place they teamed up to write
this book which was a smashing success
it's a very handy and concise guide that
in essence said this ancient philosophy
that started to come together beginning
around the sixth century BCE that we
looked at and parts two to six it was by
no means a dead philosophy even in our
21st century times
these words and ideas still have
relevance it could still be of use to us
in our day in fact both authors explain
learning from these ancient thinkers can
guide you to a good and meaningful life
the path explains very clearly how by
following some of these ancient books
many mentioned throughout this series
you can look at your own life and gain a
fresh new perspective about how to look
at yourself in your future there's
plenty of wisdom contained in these
texts that can perhaps offer you a
degree of enlightenment in reading the
book you will also get a nice review of
all the things we discussed in parts 1 &
2 of this series regarding the
historical dynamic that led to the rise
of this class of Ruffa lhasa firs of
which Confucius and monks were part of
before we call it a day there are a
couple more things and wanted to
introduce to you these aren't
necessarily Chinese philosophy but a lot
of this was incorporated into
Confucianism and especially Taoism we
didn't discuss this in detail so before
we part ways I wanted to provide an
overview of the five elements the
whooshing I think most of us have at
least passing knowledge of what the five
elements are or at least we've seen them
represented in art cosmetics sets of
soaps and scented aromatherapy candles
or maybe a t-shirt the five elements
fire water wood metal soil these are
names they don't actually mean what they
say they stand for abstract forces that
go way beyond the simplicity of what
these five Chinese characters translate
to besides being called the five
elements these whooshing are also
referred to as the five activities the
five agents and the five dynamic
interacting forces among other things in
the beginning there were the opposing
forces of yin and yang
and from this interaction came the five
elements and our world is made up of
these five elements the whole idea of
the wooshing goes back maybe as far as
2000 BCE but most probably it got its
start in the early
Joe 1000 BCE or so each of these five
elements has certain attributes ascribed
to them the nature of water for example
is to moisten and to descend the nature
of fire is to flame and ascend the
nature of wood is to be crooked and to
straighten the nature of metal is to
yield and be modified and the nature of
soil is to provide for sowing and
reaping how you lost yet
the whooshing has its tentacles and all
kinds of other aspects of Chinese
culture may be most well known in the
world of Chinese medicine when this all
began sha shang jo again like everything
else from this long ago it's hard to say
but like a lot of what we discussed the
han dynasty is where all the raw
materials extracted from the jo got
processed into the forms we're most
familiar with as far as the history of
the five elements goes let me mention
someone named sol en he was a
contemporary of shinza han fei and Lisa
he lived 305 to 240 BCE missing the
founding of the Qin by 20 years these
thinkers all know each other from the
Chi Shao Kahn the Chi sha Academy so
Leah and too was one of those great
minds studying at that famous School in
Qi state summit on grouped Zoli on with
the yin yang school calling him the
founder actually he was credited with
discovering this Nexus that existed
between science and philosophy and he
pointed to the five elements as the way
to understand it joseph needham featured
in CHP episodes 155 156 called Joe Lian
the real founder of Chinese scientific
thought it all began with him remember
that Confucianism and science hmm not
good friends no use for each other so
who came from cheese steak took the
concept of yin and yang and synthesized
it with the five elements and in so
doing organized an entire cosmology that
had these
whooshing these five agents as its
nucleus once again if not for somach n
and shrining tolya and into the record
of the grand historian perhaps we
wouldn't even know that he ever existed
in the han sol en was also known as a
great Alchemist beckons olia and stay
these practitioners of the occult arts
were called functional miz shamans and
in his day slowly end was tremendously
popular with the nobles aristocrats and
well i guess anyone who could afford his
services Taoism embraced many ideas from
so yeah especially house Oh explained
the entire universe in terms of yin and
yang and the five elements such a neat
and tidy system that makes so much sense
to 300 BC II that is the earliest of
these function asters went all the way
back to the Shang Dynasty they all use
their specialized knowledge accumulated
from centuries of observations of the 28
constellations the five planets four
weren't discovered yet the Sun the moon
and they used all this accumulated data
to create an entire astrological system
and from this system evolved these
almanacs that explain the four seasons
the equinoxes solstices now everything
tied together and how it affected the
fortunes of the dynasty she could say in
a day that lacked our sophistication all
this observed natural data was pretty
important stuff especially for rulers
seeking signs of heavens favor and of
course only the function how to consult
these almanacs in discern the
appropriate course of action to take or
not to take you know depending one of
the titles to come out of the yin-yang
school that so lien is credited with
founding was a text called the monthly
commands or healing it's mentioned in
but the Li shirt wouldn't show and the
Li ji the book of rites so it sold the
king and his court had to follow a ton
of rituals and ceremonies and if you
didn't do them on the right day
the right our facing in the right
direction you might as well not do them
at all
so the yearling was this handy guide
that had the whole schedule written down
for you and it was all based on this
cosmological theory developed to explain
and reconcile all humankind's questions
with known observations made since the
most ancient times natural forces were
mixed in with time and space and all of
this was yes
connected to the conduct of human beings
so lien was the first one to professed
that each of the whooshing the five
elements although abstract forces each
had a personified virtue and that the
ten mean the Mandate of Heaven was
manifested in ways they can all be
understood through the prism of
understanding the five elements this may
all sound a little bit too far out for a
rational mind but this fairy had staying
power and was still considered important
well into the Ching dynasty this was one
of the most important things
zou lien said that the interaction of
these forces govern the rise and fall of
all dynasties each dynasty was ruled by
one of these five elements for example
the mythical Emperor Xuan it said was
ruled by the element earth the SHA
dynasty was ruled by would the Shang by
metal the Jo by fire and each element
had all kinds of properties associated
with it they reflected on the dynasty's
character then yin and yang were added
to the mix to further explain things and
give ideas depth as far as the order of
the five elements there's two ways to do
this one is called a mutual generation
or Shang Shung series which goes like
this would produces fire fire produces
earth earth produces metal metal
produces water and water produces wood
then there was the mutual conquest or
sham kuffs series which says wood
conquers earth metal conquers wood fire
conquers metal water conquers fire and
earth conquers water this is important
because if a ruling dynasty symbol was
water Shui understanding the mutual
conquest series of the five elements one
would know earth conquers water so the
ruling dynasty would always be on the
lookout for anything that was suggestive
of the forces and symbols associated
with the earth element and they'd look
upon whatever that was was suspicion or
as a possible threat to the fortunes of
their dynasty during the Han Dynasty it
was said that the ruling house ruled
under the red phase of the fire element
and if you recall towards the end of the
Han
the one thing that foretold the end of
the dynasty the end of the mandate was
the Yellow Turban rebellion and yellow
turbans new red color combined with the
fire element of the Han ruling family
would be conquered by the color yellow
and the water element so they adopted
the yellow color is one of their symbols
of their rebellion and colored their
turbans accordingly anyway some
Confucian has tried to dabble in
whooshing theory and tried to tie some
strings to it but most thought this was
way too abstract and trying to tie
Confucian ideology to the five elements
was just going to bridge too far
wang chong who we discussed in part five
the one who wrote the lewodan hung was a
particularly vociferous critic of this
wooshing theory at least as it related
to Confucianism a lot more to the
whooshing it's like a rabbit hole and
could go on forever just want to show
that it exists and that it was another
idea woven into the philosophy of China
I was contemplating mentioning go home
but I think we'll save him for a future
episode he's rather well known as one of
China's greatest alchemists in fact
Travis Dao and Pete calm and featured go
Hong in one of their history of alchemy
podcast episodes he's probably best
known for his mixture of alchemy and
Taoism particularly in the realm of
achieving immortality I was going to
discuss him in part 6 when we looked at
Louds
trunks and Taoism but then I decided go
Hong isn't really about yeah
that was philosophy as much as he
slotted in the yung-chun subcategory of
thought gel the dullest religion
yung-chun means to preserve your life
something that Taoist masters throughout
the centuries tried to figure out and as
we know from the story of Qin Shihuang
and other notables eternal life was very
heavy and demand by those who could
afford to pay for it
that was the cryogenics of its day so
we'll hold off on go home for another
day or you can go check out Travis and
Pete's history of alchemy episode 21 and
while you're at it go check out Pete's
other show the bow hem again I fell in
love with the Czech Republic listening
to that show can't wait to go to praha
and see for myself one day I hope it's
still there
Travis Dao also the famous proprietor of
the history of Germany podcasts and a
few others as well okay you know
something let's move on to something
else the purpose of this nine part
series was to put all this out there
introduce you to these times these names
these main ideas and to offer you a
sense of how this all developed over the
millennia the same thing philosophic
thought was of course going on all over
the world the Chinese weren't the only
ones pondering life's great issues the
same was going on in the West and
throughout the civilized world so you
have all the bullet points the names and
I hope somewhat of an appreciation of
who was who and who said what and I
encourage you to do yourself a bit of
good old-fashioned self cultivation and
see for yourself what this thought can
teach you the loan you the Confucian
Analects just a collection of aphorisms
but a lot of them resonate just as loud
today as they did back in the sixth
century BCE most all of the great
classic texts are freely available all
over the internet the Internet Archive
is a good place to get free downloads
archive.org if you don't know ok ladies
and gentlemans i am closing out this
year-long labor of love to try and take
the history of chinese philosophy
organize it and
put it inside an attractive nine piece
bento box I hope you're leaving
satisfied don't forget to recycle that
box one last thing before I go let me
mention a new book just came out on
University of Chicago Press based in my
love Chia scott tongs a village with my
name a very well crafted history of
modern China that Scott tells through
introducing the untold stories of his
relatives the ones who well due to
historical circumstances didn't
necessarily get to cash in on the China
miracle it's a great American immigrant
story that weaves a nice tale that takes
you to northern Chang soo Chongqing
Shanghai Hong Kong Nanjing and Wuhan a
village with my name Scott Tong yeah the
marketplace Scott Tong American public
media he was on Kaiser and Jeremy sinico
show recently check that one out too hey
and thanks to the brilliant and
good-looking allagash Jeffrey wasa strim
LA Review of Books the whole China
Channel editorial team thanks for taking
a chance with this nine part series if
any of yous get sick of China politics
news and opinion seek some cultural
comfort and relief over at China channel
dot-org that's my recommendation
overflowing with great stuff okay more
Drew's you this is Laszlo Montgomery
signing off from a recording studio
somewhere in Los Angeles California
where well if you saw it you wouldn't
believe it let's just leave it at that
I have the next great thing here the CHP
all lined up for all y'alls so don't
worry I'm not going to take another half
year sabbatical take care everyone and I
look forward to seeing you next time for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast
you